Places of item framework that allows you to build web applications. But in order to use Places you have to install lot of libraries and dependencies in your local system. That takes so much time and space. That's why we are going to use Google Colour. It's Google Colour is an online Jupyter notebook where you can write Python program in these small cells and execute them. So let's see how we can write. So web application means HTML code. So how can we write the HTML code here in order to do that if you want to display any HTML file using Flask you have to create a folder as templates. So how can we create templates folder here. So for that we have a command as make directory in Google colab mkdi and because I want to create folder with templates name. So I'm going to write templates and then minus P. So after writing the line you can simply run this code and you can see that here it's it's working. So if there is no error you will get a green tick. So we have already created templates folder now it's time to write the HTML code in this folder. So for that we are going to use command as write file in Google colab and then because we want to write inside the templates folder. We are going to put the folder name and now because I want to keep the name of my HTML file as index. HTML I'm going to do that. Now here you can write in HTML code. So I'm going to write HTML body. And I'm just going to write one text. Welcome to buy friends for it. And you can close your body tag and close your HTML. So let's add one styling as well. Very simple styling for this. So I'm just going to put style tag here. So here you can put any HTML code. You can also copy and paste from other sources as well. Okay, yeah we have made one percent signs so that's why it's giving the error. Yeah, so now it's working. Now let's see how we are going to write the flash code. So first we are going to import OS and then import threading because we are going to execute this flash code in a separate thread. And then we are going to write from flash. First let's see, let's run this. And as we are going to host this flash code in ngRoc server. Basically ngRoc will just give you a public URL which you can use and accessible only for six hours. So instead of deploying this code in a local host, I'm going to deploy this in ngRoc server. So how first let's install that here. Otherwise it will give you error. So this is the library by ngRoc. Let's install. Yeah, and now let's import flash. I have imported this file render template in order to render my HTML file and display it. And we have to import ngRoc as well from this pi ngRoc that we have installed before. Now here we are going to build one environment. I'll keep this environment name as flash. And as we have to initialize this flash. So we are going to use this app. I'll provide the port as well 5000. And then so in order to use ngRoc before it was used to be free. But now it requires authentication token authentication token is nothing but a key that you require to provide it here so that you can use this ngRoc. So how can you get this authentication token you can go to your ngRoc. You can log in to the ngRoc website and you will easily get your authentication token. You can see it here. So I'll just copy this. Sorry, I'm pasted here. And now we are going to connect this with public URL. So we are going to connect our local URL with ngRoc. So for that there is a function as ngRoc.connect and this port is for my public URL. So I'm going to connect it with ngRoc. And here I'll just print whether it's showing me that you are a lot more. I'm going to show that public URL here. Now let's configure this. So basically a flask work on several API and root. So here we are going to pass the root. So for by default, if you pass it like this with this dash that means it will take you to index.html by default. I mean the main page but here if you if you have a lot of HTML files like home.html about that HTML in here you can pass as about. And then it will if if your website if anyone open anyone is root to about then it will render this code. But for now this will just take us to our main file. So here I'm going to use render template function. And you can provide your file name that is index.html. And now it's time to run the flask in a separate thread. These are some by default code that you will easily find in ngRoc server. .start function in order to start this thread. And now let's see. Just comment this line. Actually I have already used this authentication token. So now it's not letting me to use again. So now I so I have changed this authentication token with new one. Now let's run this. So you can see here you will get to URL. This one is our local URL that is local host and this one is the ngRoc URL. So if you click on this link. It will give you your HTML output. So similarly you can also create your new CSS file and a new directory for different different file. And you can link them in your you can write the last code and you can link your link and render your template here. And you will get one ngRoc URL that will be accessible for six hours. And along with one local host URL if you don't put ngRoc and if you directly simply run the python code. You will only get this local host URL which you can't share it with anyone. But if you are creating some application and want to test whether it's working or not. And if you want to share that link with anyone. So for that it's ngRoc is very much useful. So you can see this is our output. So that's how you can run this last code in Google call app.